---
title: Git
description: Commanding Git
author: Pratik Kabade
layout: post
icon: fa-pencil
image: assets/images/Git.png
---

Git is free and open source software for distributed version control: tracking changes in any set of files, usually used for coordinating work among programmers collaboratively developing source code during software development.

<style>
:root {
    --accent: #000e5e;
    --this_accent: #ede0ff;
    --code_accent: #a95eff;
}


#progressBar {
    top: 0%;
    background: linear-gradient(to right, #9e72e4, #56099e);
}
</style>

## Commanding Git

### 0. git config

**Usage**: `git config –global user.name “[name]”`

**Usage**: `git config –global user.email “[email address]”`

This command sets the author name and email address respectively to be used with your commits.

### 1. git init

**Usage**: `git init [repository name]`

This command is used to start a new repository.

### 2. git clone

**Usage**: `git clone [url]`

This command is used to obtain a repository from an existing URL.

### 3. git add

**Usage**: `git add [file]`

This command adds a file to the staging area.

**Usage**: `git add *`

This command adds one or more to the staging area.

### 4. git commit

**Usage**: `git commit -m “[ Type in the commit message]”`

This command records or snapshots the file permanently in the version history.

### 5. git diff

**Usage**: `git diff`

This command shows the file differences which are not yet staged.

**Usage**: `git diff –staged`

This command shows the differences between the files in the staging area and the latest version present.

**Usage**: `git diff [first branch] [second branch]`

This command shows the differences between the two branches mentioned.

### 6. git reset

**Usage**: `git reset [file]`

This command unstages the file, but it preserves the file contents.

**Usage**: `git reset –hard [commit]`

This command discards all history and goes back to the specified commit.

### 7. git status

**Usage**: `git status`

This command lists all the files that have to be committed.

### 8. git rm

**Usage**: `git rm [file]`

This command deletes the file from your working directory and stages the deletion.

### 9. git log

**Usage**: `git log`

This command is used to list the version history for the current branch.

**Usage**: `git log –follow[file]`

This command lists version history for a file, including the renaming of files also.

### 10. git show

**Usage**: `git show [commit]`

This command shows the metadata and content changes of the specified commit.

### 11. git tag

**Usage**: `git tag [commitID]`

This command is used to give tags to the specified commit.

### 12. git branch

**Usage**: `git branch`

This command lists all the local branches in the current repository.

**Usage**: `git branch [branch name]`

This command creates a new branch.
